well Israel's bombardment of Gaza has
damaged and destroyed about 60% of the
housing stock in the territory now much
of gaza's cultural inheritage sites have
also been reduced to Rubble we have with
us yya saraj he's the mayor of Gaza
joining us from there thanks for your
time with us on Al jaer tell us from
what you've seen now that the ceasefire
has been ongoing for six days has it
allowed you uh to survey the extent of
the damage in Gaza and how would you
describe
it
thank you very much when we move around
Gaza we feel very angry and very sad as
well uh we can discover now how much
damage has been inflicted on the
infrastructure of the city on the
cultural centers on the in the main
libraries of the city and on the public
the main public yards that serve the
children and the people uh the main
quarter the headquarter of the municip
ality has been hit hard with two
attacks damaging three stories of one
building and damaging the central
Archive of the city destroying thousands
of documents of very important
historical value we feel very angry very
sad and the damage is is unbelievable
around the city when you say
unbelievable I wonder if you can
quantify it in terms of uh perhaps the
percentage of homes that have been
destroyed the the the hospitals that
have been
destroyed the the percentage is
estimated now at about 60% of uh housing
units and apartments and a lot of people
thousands of people are now homeless
they either uh live in schools or in
shelters or at their
relatives the these apartments cannot be
liveable at the moment and you everybody
knows that sha hospital has been
evacuated and badly damaged they also
try to damage Al madani btic hospital
and the infrastructure they they they
destroyed the West Water pumping
stations they destroyed many water wells
and uh we cannot now serve the people we
cannot provide them with the the
necessary water that that they deserve
that they need so tell us about the AIDS
that's coming in I mean we speak to
humanitarian um organizations and people
from Gaza who say look this Aid is
simply not enough but uh what's most
needed and and what to you as the mayor
of Gaza what do you think are the
biggest challenges right
now well the aid is not enough either in
the quantity or the quality of things
that has been provided the main thing
the main commodity that we need now is
fuel we don't have petrol to operate the
the generators the electricity
generators to operate the water pumps
the uh pump stations we we feel that we
we are coming to a disaster and
environmental disaster in the city we
have stor motor mixed with waste water
in the main stor motor Lagoon and if
this floods it will cover many places
and it will get into houses of people
causing a very very public health
disaster fuel to this moment didn't
arrive and the Israelis are preventing
fuel from coming and believe we'll have
to leave it there thank you so much y
saraj thank you for joining us from
Gaza